Extension library docs (#289)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/develop/01_sdk/04_integrate/04_extension_api.md

---
id: kilt-extension-api
title: KILT Extension API
---

import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The KILT Extension API is a JavaScript and TypeScript library that provides helper functions for interacting with KILT extensions.
It facilitates communication between your application and KILT extensions.

## Installation

Add the package:

<Tabs groupId="ts-js-choice">
  <TabItem value='ts' label='Typescript' default>

  ```bash
  yarn add @kiltprotocol/kilt-extension-api
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value='js' label='Javascript'>

  ```bash
  npm install --save @kiltprotocol/kilt-extension-api
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Initialize Extension API

> Before your application can communicate with KILT extensions, call the `initializeKiltExtensionAPI()` method to signal the API versions supported by your application so the extension can inject the appropriate scripts.

Reviewer: This should happen at the earliest point possible on page load, I think the specification also says as much. That is to make sure that when the extension checks for support when navigating to a site the necessary flags are already set, otherwise it won't inject. Could be good to make that clear.

Reviewer: Is it worth saying here that applications also must have the did configuration set up in order to be able to communicate with Kilt extensions?

<Tabs groupId="ts-js-choice">
  <TabItem value='ts' label='Typescript' default>

  ```ts
  import { initializeKiltExtensionAPI } from 'kilt-extension-api'

  initializeKiltExtensionAPI()
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value='js' label='Javascript'>

  ```js
  import { initializeKiltExtensionAPI } from 'kilt-extension-api'

  initializeKiltExtensionAPI()
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Get Extensions

The `getExtensions()` method returns a list of extensions injected into the browser.

<Tabs groupId="ts-js-choice">
  <TabItem value='ts' label='Typescript' default>

  ```ts
  import { getExtensions } from 'kilt-extension-api'

  const extensions = getExtensions()
  console.log(extensions)
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value='js' label='Javascript'>

  ```js
  import { getExtensions } from 'kilt-extension-api'

  const extensions = getExtensions()
  console.log(extensions)
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Watch Extensions

Extensions can take longer to load than the host application, so the first call to `getExtensions()` might not return all available extensions.
To receive updates on extensions as they load, use the `watchExtensions` method.

> The following is an example of how you can use this method in a React application:

Reviewer: Very nice!

  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value='js' label='Javascript'>

  ```js
  import { watchExtensions } from "kilt-extension-api"

  function App() {
    const [extensions, setExtensions] = useState([])

    useEffect(() => {
      watchExtensions(extensions => {
        setExtensions(extensions)
      })
    }, [])

    return (
      <>
        <h2>Extensions</h2>
        <ul>
          {extensions.map((ext, i) => (
            <li key={i}>{ext.name}</li>
          ))}
        </ul>
      </>
    )
  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Well-Known DID Configuration

This library helps set up the [Well-Known DID Configuration](https://identity.foundation/.well-known/resources/did-configuration/) as required by the [KILT Credential API specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/spec-ext-credential-api).

### Using the CLI Tool

This library includes a CLI tool to create a [DID Configuration Resource](https://identity.foundation/.well-known/resources/did-configuration/#did-configuration-resource). This resource is necessary to establish a secure, end-to-end encrypted communication channel between a conforming browser extension and the application backend.

:::warning KILT Account

> The `createDidConfig` CLI tool **only** works if you installed the package with Yarn.

Reviewer: Is that true? I think once we have published a built of the library the script should also work with npm, don't you think? The requirement to use yarn right now came from the need to run build steps on install by executing the prepack script.

:::

Run the CLI tool using Yarn as follows:

```bash
yarn createDidConfig --did <your DID> \
    --origin <your domain> \
    --assertionMethod <id of your DID's assertionMethod key> \
    --seed <seed or mnemonic of the assertionMethod key>
```

:::info

- `did`: DID of the issuer (and subject) of the Domain Linkage Credential. If omitted, the tool attempts to infer this from the `assertionMethod`.
- `seed`: Mnemonic or seed for the `assertionMethod` key used for issuing a new credential.

> - `origin`: The domain for which you are creating the credential. [Read MDN docs for more details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Origin]) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `origin`: The [HTTP origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Origin) or URL of the web application for which you are creating the credential. Note that this must be an https:// URL with an empty path component. The resulting credential is valid for all paths under this origin. 
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## DID Configuration

> You need [an existing DID configuration](../../01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/00_generate_keys.md) setup for your application to communicate with KILT extensions.

Reviewer: I'd say that you need an active DID with which it must sign a Did Configuration Resource to establish the association of your DID and your application's domain.

Reviewer: linking to how you create a DID makes a lot of sense though.

This library helps set up the [Well-Known DID Configuration](https://identity.foundation/.well-known/resources/did-configuration/) as required by the [KILT Credential API specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/spec-ext-credential-api).

### Using the CLI Tool

This library includes a CLI tool to create a [DID Configuration Resource](https://identity.foundation/.well-known/resources/did-configuration/#did-configuration-resource).
This resource is necessary to establish a secure, end-to-end encrypted communication channel between a conforming browser extension and the application backend.

Run the CLI tool using Yarn as follows:

<Tabs groupId="yarn-node-choice">
  <TabItem value='yarn' label='Yarn' default>

  ```bash

>   yarn createDidConfig --did <your DID> \

Reviewer: we may note that this only works after having added the library to your current project, while npx always works
